Here is a description for using a summary table about a database:

As the name suggests, the table is used to describe some properties about the content of the database.
It is aggregated on the column level, so one row represents the statisitcs about one column.

The first column named "resource" is the name of the model in dbt.
The second column named "column_name" is the precise name of the column in the model, can't be changed in generated codes!
The database is unique for the combination of the first column named "resource" and the second column named "column_name".
The last column named "profiled_at" is the date of the last run for the table and that particular column's statistics generation.
The rest of the columns are the aggregated column level informations. They are the following:
data_type: the data type of the column in the database
row_count: the number of rows the column has
not_null_proportion: the percentage of the rows, in which the column's value is not null. The number 1 means 100%, 0.5 means 50%, etc...
distinct_proportion: the biggest percentage of the rows, in which the column's value is distinct from each other. The number 1 means 100%, 0.5 means 50%, etc...
distinct_count: the count of the distinct values, that can be found in the column across the whole table
is_unique: a boolean value, that describes if the column is unique
min: the minimum value of the column across the whole table
max: the maximum value of the column across the whole table
avg: the average value of the column across the whole table
median: the median value of the column across the whole table

This table should be considered as the base truth about the data coming in. 
E.g.: if the is_unique field id True, than it is expected, that the column should be unique later on as well.
If the not_null_proportion is a different number than 1 (which means 100%), than it is expected, that the column will have null values later on.

The generated response should not use the table directly!
The values in the model can have comma in them!
